---
layout: post
title: 15 Dec 2020, Zaccarella et al. (2017)
date: 2020-12-15 15:44
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This is an fMRI study that clearly served as one of the bases for Goucha, Zaccarella, &amp; Friederici (2017). The study looked at the syntactic computation merge, and tried to identify its neural basis.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The study compared 3-word sentences vs. preposition phrases vs. noun lists, and found that sentences + phrases - noun list showed activation in the IFG peaking at BA44, and in the pSTS. Moreover, sentences - noun lists showed a peak in BA44, while phrases - noun lists showed a peak in BA45. In consideration of previous studies, the authors concluded that BA44 may be responsible for structure building, BA45 for encoding of propositional meaning initiated by the verb, and pSTS for thematic role assignment.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Stimuli were 3-word sentences (with verb, “the ship sinks”), phrases (PP without verb “on the ship”), and noun lists (“ship stem juice”). The authors chose noun list instead of lists of both nouns and function words because they believed lists including function words may elicit additional syntax processing. Participants saw one word at a time for 300ms, and were asked to push a button to indicate whether what they just saw was a sentence/phrase, a word list, or rubbish (rubbish?).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Later in discussions, the authors address the doubt that the differences in brain activation may only reflect processing of function words since the word list condition didn’t have any. They suggested that previous studies using all-function-word list as control also found activation of BA44 in sentence - word list (Maguire and Firth, 2004).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors stressed that the activation in BA44 in both sentence and phrase conditions could mean that BA44 is involved even in the minimal structure building. So I wonder if it would be interesting to test this using Chinese, where we can omit the article in “the ship sinks” and “on the ship”, and two words can already form very meaningful structures such as “吃饭”. I seem to remember that some study have already done this (might want to look later), which would be a very good complement to this study.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>One question the authors left for future studies is whether BA44’s structure building is language specific or domain general, since recent evidence suggests involvement of BA44 in music and mathematics, etc.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>(One small personal thought: I’m always a little bit skeptical of this kind of fMRI studies looking at very fine grained structures in language, simply because the poor temporal resolution of fMRI. One question seems to be always there: no matter how carefully we design the study, can we be 100% sure the BOLD differences IS elicited by what we are testing, not by whatever other differences there might be in the stimuli? But I see the effort of researchers trying very hard to address this issue, and I appreciate it.)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Maguire EA, Frith CD. The brain network associated with acquiring semantic knowledge. <em>Neuroimage</em>. 2004 May;22(1):171-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2003.12.036. PMID: 15110007.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Zaccarella, E., Meyer, L., Makuuchi, M., &amp; Friederici, A. D. (2017). Building by syntax: the neural basis of minimal linguistic structures. <em>Cerebral Cortex</em>, <em>27</em>(1), 411-421.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
