---
layout: post
title: 14 Dec 2020, Dautriche et al. (2015)
date: 2020-12-14 21:34
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This is a study from ENS Paris investigating novel word learning in 18-month-old French toddlers. It was shown in previous studies (Swingley &amp; Aslin, 2002, 2007) that toddlers have difficulties picking up novel nouns that sound like nouns they know (tog vs. dog), failing to recognize the word as a novel word to be learned because of the phonological similarity. In this study, they tested whether novel nouns that are similar to existing verbs are also difficult for children or as easy as novel words with no similarities.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>3 groups of 18-months-olds participated in the study. The authors did 3 experiments, each with different participants, testing noun-familiar words vs. no-familiar words, verb-familiar words vs. no-familiar words, and noun-familiar words vs. verb-familiar words. I suspect they did it this way rather than putting everything in one experiment is that they didn’t want to (or couldn’t) use more than two novel words in a single testing. Words used were as follows: noun: pallon (ballon), ganard (canard), gochon (cochon), pateau (bateau); verb: barti (parti), dombé (tombé), gassé (cassé), tonné (donné); no: prolin, barlié, torba, lagui. Teaching phase was some teaching videos, testing phase used language guided looking paradigm (“Regarde le [], tu le vois le []?”).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>3 experiments together showed that proportion of look to target was always on chance level for the noun condition, while quickly increased at about 600ms after target word onset for both verb condition and no-familiar condition, similar to the results using well known real words (as baseline). </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors concluded that although what exactly guided the learning of verb-familiar novel words (the fact that novel and familiar words are from different syntactic categories, syntax; or the fact that they represent object vs. movement, semantics), it is clear that toddlers did not rely solely on phonology to determine which word is a novel word that should be learned.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The experiments and data seems very clean and convincing (although I noticed that they had to throw away almost 1/3 of the participants, such are children I guess :)). However I couldn’t help but ask some questions.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In their design, it seems that they carefully matched the gender of the novel words and their familiar noun (le ganard vs. le canard), this is not entirely unimportant because the testing guidance used the article le/la “Regarde le []”, and they didn’t specify whether the definite article or indefinite article was used in the teaching phase. I think it would be interesting to test whether novel words are still difficult to learn if the syntactic gender was changed (la ganard vs. le canard). This little change might also help the authors to ascertain the “syntax or semantics helps” issue mentioned in their discussion.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Another small thing brought up by the articles was about the verb condition. In discussion the authors admitted that children may not think of the verb that is similar to the novel word they are hearing in the teaching videos, due to the very different context nouns and verbs appear, this also raises the question of whether children were affected by n-gram probability (what is n-gram called in the more linguistic context again?).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Also, I wonder if it would be interesting to test some novel nouns similar to verbs *only when including their article* (le vée vs. lever) (maybe not so much) (but again the authors used words that are differentiable on the first consonant so that’s a little tricky).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Dautriche, I., Swingley, D., &amp; Christophe, A. (2015). Learning novel phonological neighbors: Syntactic category matters. <em>Cognition</em>, <em>143</em>, 77-86.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Swingley, D., &amp; Aslin, R. N. (2002). Lexical neighborhoods and the word-form representations of 14-month-olds. <em>Psychological science</em>, <em>13</em>(5), 480-484.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Swingley, D., &amp; Aslin, R. N. (2007). Lexical competition in young children’s word learning. <em>Cognitive psychology</em>, <em>54</em>(2), 99-132.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
