---
layout: post
title: 21 Dec 2020, revision
date: 2020-12-21 12:03
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>(The following words contain many omitted hyphens, commas, parentheses, etc. :p)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Today seems good to revise what I’ve read in this little project. I started off just searching some language and neuro related key words, then collected any articles whose title sounded interesting. Many of the papers are from Nature’s Scientific Report, which has many good open access articles. I also kept in mind to mostly include recent papers. As of today I’ve gone through 26 papers. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I can put these articles into 5 categories, language representation in brain, formal syntax in brain, acquisition, processing of language (the ERPs not the NLPs), and finally the nice little knowledge from other fields category. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The first category mostly includes (f)MRI studies, and the two ECoG studies about speech in sensory-motor cortex. I’m unfamiliar with ECoG, but I was astonished that this method is able to obtain very clean data from just a few patients with different arrangements of electrodes. The two studies, in a word, told me that articulation in sensory-motor is hierarchical, which is not unlike the categorization of phones in phonetics; and that speech sensory-motor transformation may be specific, and happens bilaterally. I wonder if it’s because the two papers I happened to read were both about speech, or it’s that speech is a popular language topic in ECoG. If more ECoG studies were about speech, maybe it’s because sensory-motor cortex is very important in epilepsy surgery? (so more patients with electrodes on that area)?</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Other than the two studies, the (f)MRI studies are mostly about semantic representation, lateralization, and development/plasticity. One of the semantic papers was a review (Patterson et al., 2007) combining fMRI and patient studies (semantic dementia). Except for the familiar fMRI based language network, disorder studies showed involvement of the bilateral ATL in semantic representations, maybe serving as the semantic hub handling cross- model task-dependent representations. Also proposing bilateral semantic representation is Huth et al., 2016 using fMRI decoding to establish an atlas of semantic representations, which is widely distributed (temporal, parietal, and prefrontal), symmetrically bilateral, and consistent across individuals. These results lead to the thinking of language lateralization may be more “language specific”, that brain activities within the “meaning” part of language (in my view the integration of word with emm.. memory?) may be highly bilateral. Two of the other studies talked about language lateralization and handedness, one is a meta analysis (sort of) that found no direct associations between language lateralization and handedness; one is an fMRI study that showed left-handed trilinguals’ third language may have different lateralization than the other two, no more differences was found in the right-handed group. Overall these two studies indicated weak or even non-existing associations between handedness and language lateralization. (Yazbek et al 2020, Packheiser et al 2020)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>One of the developmental fMRI studies I read compared neonates and adults’ VWFA, and found that the VWFA already looks language selective at birth and are more functionally connected to language areas (Li et al 2020). Another is a DTI study talking about bilingualism and the left AF &amp; IFOF (Mohades et al 2015). They found that bilingualism and AOA of L2 affects maturation and myelination of those connections. Similarly talking about parameters of brain development, Dehaene et al 2010 compared literates and illiterates’ VWFA, and found that literacy, acquired early or late, enhances VWFA’s response to scripts, allows the entire language network to be activated by written language, and also refined phonological processing. But there were competition effects in the VWFA too, resulting in its reduced response to faces and checkerboards. Finally, Barnes-Davis et al 2020 studies extremely preterm children’s language areas and showed bilateral cortical thickness normalized by intracranial volume increased in EPT children. They suggested that an interhemispheric pathway involving cerebellum may be key to development of language in EPT children. (Does this mean they are also suggesting language lateralization associated with preterm-ness? (← what is this word))</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The second category is three papers from Max Planck Germany that studied the neural basis for minimal sentence structure. Goucha Zaccarella Friederici 2017 is a good summarize of these studies.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>On acquisition, an empirical study and a review I read stressed the importance of both language specific learning mechanisms (e.g. tested by artificial grammar learning) and statistical learning. (Dautriche et al 2015, Gómez and Gerken 2000). There were also two similar studies on artificial L2 that showed the advantage of learning from chunks (gendered article + noun) benefits learning of syntactic gender.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The ERP studies mainly added to my previous knowledge, and the following summarization may sound very fragmental. Calma &amp; Drury 2020, the N400 is sensitive to music patterns as well as language; Coderre et al 2020, the N400 sensitive to visual narratives (comics); Emmendorfer et al 2020, the MMN sensitive to predictability (more predictable oddballs make greater MMN) but not to stress.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Because the way I’ve chosen the papers (randomly), it feels very difficult to put them together in one summary. And when I do it feels like bullet points without the bullet points. But a terrible summary is nonetheless better than no summary. My next step, I’ve marked some interesting papers in the references of the papers I’m reading, and hopefully later I’ll have more things to talk about on specific topics, and the next summaries will hopefully be topic-wise.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://yilinghuo.wordpress.com/my-blog/reading-list/" target="_blank">My reading list</a></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
