---
layout: post-narrow
title: 31 Dec 2020, thoughts
date: 2020-12-31 20:39
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This is the last day of the year. I read a nicely organized paper today and wrote notes I feel longer than any notes I've written (on a single paper), so my rubbish has to be a new post. 2020 feels so strange. I've been through so many things yet memories are still fuzzy. Last year on this day, I was probably at my rented room in SH worring about my applications of scholarships. Today I'm at my home (though as I've been out of the home for long enough it feels more like 'mom's place') worring about my applications of scholarchips. Everything changed and nothing changed. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The end of year is when no TV shows have new episodes, but luckly all the illustrators I follow on SNS are posting a lot of stuff. Guess they're bored of no new TV, too. It certainly won't show on this blog, but I do have many dearest hobbies. Every year at this time I try to do a version of the illustrator's 'the year in a nutshell' challenge or whatever that's called in English, but with whatever I'm working on. I remember 2018's to be very colorful, with my undergrad thesis in French on formal syntax, some translation work I've done and was payed for, as well as course essays for UCL. I was always so happy to do so many different things. I feel like I'm change-liking person not because I enjoy change in my life (I'm terrified of it just like everyone else), but because when I sit back and look at my life, the periods when a lot of changes happen are also the ones I'll recall with a smile on my face. I also remember I didn't do the chanllenge in 2019, although it would feature my proud MSc thesis, mainly because I couldn't bring myself to randomly post anything about my work online. I also didn't do many meaningful writings during my work anyways. 2020 when I think about it, besides the things that happened in my personal life, on the productive side, there's still my work, the study I'm still doing with Dr. Chow, and there's this blog. So if I'm to post four pictures summarizing this year it might be a screenshot of the eyelink Data Viewer, my poster that I presented at CUNY, a page of this blog, and maybe my CV perhaps (I know but I really like how my CV is visually presented). During the time when I was too sick to study I've also done some creative writing, but let's not get into details here. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I feel like writing these summarizing words is also helping me develop some confidence, listing down all the things I've produced surely was very enjoyable.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I hope my 2021 summary can feature this blog, too, somethings form my PhD, and hopefully the study with Dr. Chow in it's manuscript form. (Also, help! I don't know when to switch from the respectful form to Wing-Yee, or whether I should switch at all, help! -from a clueless intercultural person)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I think that's about it. Happy New Year!</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
