---
layout: post
title: 26 Dec 2020, Science no. 6461
date: 2020-12-27 22:39
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The power of the internet let me found a physical copy of Science issue 6461, the Language and the Brain special issue. It features four reviews that summarizes neural basis of human language from different views: evolution, comprehension/processing, speech perception and production, and combinatory syntax vs. semantics. It’s actually the first time I’ve read scientific journals in its “magazine”form. It feels so unrealistic seeing scientific reports printed together with so many ads just like fashion magazines. I’ve also realized I’ve been assuming that many journals now only publish in digital form (meaning the things that pop up on google scholar are everything there are to a journal), but I can be massively wrong!</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The evolution review (Erich Jarvis 2019) focused on vocal learning and speech, and compared those neural networks in humans, songbirds, vocal birds (one can learn new songs and one can only sing instinctively), and primates. Because I was so unfamiliar with the subject (at least in English), it took the full set of my comprehension skills and my contextual vocabulary learning skills to read the paper. It’s very interesting to see some more biological terms like “forebrain” being used to describe human language systems. This review, in one word, argues that the neural basis of speech learning is more shared among species than previously thought, though challenging a little the notion of the uniqueness of human language.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The processing review is by Peter Hagoort. the author started from the classical Broca + Wernicke model of language in the brain, and extended on a few different levels why the classical model is not accurate. On neuroplasticity, the author review studies on the congenitally blind population, and pointed out selective recruitment of the visual cortex in language in this population. The author then followed a “step of processing” line of reasoning, and reviewed the immediacy principle (information processed immediately rather than wait for whole structure), where the author then linked to the role of prediction, and how the LIFC and temporoparietal areas dynamically work during the immediate processing of information and prediction. This is also where I’ll start from in my PhD. Next, the author reviewed how some paralinguistics features like topic and pragmatic inference  gare processed. Two things I’ve learned are that the N400 and the P600 were more robust when the unexpected word is part of the focus constituent; and that some pragmatic processing (such as understanding indirect requests) are found to activate the theory of mind network in the right temporoparietal junction and medial prefrontal cortex. The author ended the review proposing a multiple network view of language processing.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The third review is by Sophie Scott on speech and social interaction in the brain. This review also compared human speech to sounds in animals, and continued to summarize some important studies on speech recognition, adaptation (to accents and to noise), speech in imagery. The author continued to talk about the role of the STG and auditory representations, citing evidences of representation of syllables (rather than individual phonemes). The review then transited to include the overlapping of speech networks and other modalities, then moving forward to speech and social communication.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The last review is the one I’m most interested in, by Liina Pylkkänen on the neural basis of combinatory syntax and semantics. The most interesting about this paper is that it stated the idea that maybe the brain doesn’t build syntax structure during language processing. The review started from MEG studies looking for syntax in brain (using minimal syntax structure vs. word lists), and stressed the role of ventral medial prefrontal cortex and left ATL. But then the review cited further studies that found that maybe both the vmPFC and lATL are not doing purely syntactic work but combinatory semantics work (evidence from differences of activation in these regions when semantic range changes but syntax stays the same eg. “Korean food” vs. “Asian food”). The reason to doubt a purely syntax process in the brain were made with four points according to the author: (1) neural signals are dominated by meaning not syntax during natural language processing (no not THAT NLP haha). (2) Although several regions are reliably linked to syntax, we don’t know to what degree the activation is driven by syntax per se or combinatory semantics (does combinatory<strong> </strong>semantics here mean what the syntax semantics interface mean in theoreticals?). (3) Electrophysiological signal rythmically tracks syntactic phrases, but the question is still open whether the tracking is about syntax or combinatory semantics. (But the author then said studies using artificial grammar replicated this rythmic tracking so this may be more syntax than semantics.)   There was a nice picture summarizing roles of lATL and vmPFC in combinatory efforts vs. AG and PTL and LIFG which are more purely syntax (argument structure, syntax combinations, long distance dependencies, respectively). A brief timeframe is also there on the image. In the concluding remarks, the author proposed that syntax may be something the brain knows rather than does, meaning that syntactic processing amounts to comparing semantic structures to stored knowledge of syntax. The author did admit the role of syntax in prediction later, though, saying that syntax may have a role in top-down predictive processing, but the bottom-up processing may be pure semantic.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Half way through this paper I had many questions, but in the end I felt this paper doesn’t contradict with anything I previously know, after all. First of all, studies in this article did use the minimal of minimal structures (something like “blue boat” not even with a “the”), which is quite different even with those fMRI studies I’ve read using minimal structures (at least full sentences like “the dog eats”). It feels natural that the “blue boats” are largely semantic. Then, the idea of syntax being more top-down and semantics dominate the bottom-up seems somehow natural to me, though being a freshperson like myself I cannot immediately cite tons of papers supporting this idea. I guess at the end of the day it’s about what we mean by “processing”, the author of this article apparently is referring to the “earlier” steps (earlier in quotes because some of the semantic combination effects are observed 300-400ms) of understanding the meaning, while I’m more familiar with “later” steps of what happens when the basic meaning is already available.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>(Just one little complain here when nobody is reading, can we think of a better term than “processing”??? It’s really awkward when people just naturally thinks it’s the NLP! Or should I be happy that the human brain and the computers are so alike now that we’ve started to use colliding terms?)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Hagoort, P. (2019). The neurobiology of language beyond single-word processing. <em>Science</em>, <em>366</em>(6461), 55-58.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Jarvis, E. D. (2019). Evolution of vocal learning and spoken language. <em>Science</em>, <em>366</em>(6461), 50-54.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Pylkkänen, L. (2019). The neural basis of combinatory syntax and semantics. <em>Science</em>, <em>366</em>(6461), 62-66.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Scott, S. K. (2019). From speech and talkers to the social world: The neural processing of human spoken language. <em>Science</em>, <em>366</em>(6461), 58-62.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
