---
layout: post
title: 28 Dec 2020, Crinion et al. (2006)
date: 2020-12-28 15:58
author: balalahelo
comments: true
categories: [bilingualism, fMRI, language control, left caudate, lexical priming, PET, Science, 未分类]
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A PET+fMRI study on language control in the bilingual brain. The study used a two-word priming paradigm, in a 2-by-2-by-2 design, they manipulated semantic relatedness (trout-SALMON vs. trout-HORSE), same vs. different language (trout-SALMON vs. trout-LACHS), and target language (trout-LACHS vs. forelle-SALMON).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>One group of German-English bilinguals participated in the PET study, and a group of German-English bilinguals + a group of Japanese-English bilinguals participated in the fMRI study. Participants viewed successively presented word pairs and were asked to make a lexical decision based on the second word. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The ventral surface of the lATL as well as behavioral showed a main effect of relatedness, but no effects of language, suggesting language-independent priming effects.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The left caudate, however, showed many language-dependent effects. Related words reduced activation in the left caudate when the word pair is in the same language more than when in different languages, irrespective of the language of the prime/target. The authors argued that the results reflect language control, rather than orthographic effects, because otherwise the same vs. different language would lead to activation differences irrespective of semantic relatedness, which was not the case.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors proposed two possible mechanisms underlying their findings: that different languages are processing using different populations of neurons, and priming only affected neurons for the prime language, thus not reducing activation when processing other languages; or that the same neurons respond to semantic input in both languages with increased neuronal firing when there is a change in language. The authors favored the second explanation, citing lesion studies for evidence.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A lesion study cited reported a trilingual patient with lesion to white matters surrounding the head of the left caudate, who showed no difficulty in comprehension in all three languages, but showed involuntary language switch in production (Abutalebi et al 2000), thus supporting the role of left caudate in language control (rather than each area processes one language, which, come to think about it, is a cute idea that kinda show characteristics of 2006 papers).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors also cited several lesion studies in monolingual patients, suggesting similar role of left caudate in lexical control.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Finally, the authors stressed anatomical connections with the left caudate receiving projections from frontal, temporal, and parietal association regions in language-dominant hemisphere, and sending projections via the thalamus which play a role in motor planning of articulation.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Abutalebi, J., Miozzo, A., &amp; Cappa, S. F. (2000). Do subcortical structures control ‘language selection’in polyglots? Evidence from pathological language mixing. <em>Neurocase</em>, <em>6</em>(1), 51-56.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Crinion, J., Turner, R., Grogan, A., Hanakawa, T., Noppeney, U., Devlin, J. T., ... &amp; Usui, K. (2006). Language control in the bilingual brain. <em>Science</em>, <em>312</em>(5779), 1537-1540.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
