---
layout: post-narrow
title: 26 Jan 2021, Tiedt et al. (2020)
date: 2021-01-26 22:47
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A study of N400 modulation in the aging population.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Using a two word priming paradigm the study compared RT of lexical decision and the N400 to study the effect of aging on lexical processing.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>They found a dissociation between RT and the N400: while the elderly showed increased priming effects in RT (similar RT as younger for related word pair, increased RT for unrelated word pair); they also showed decreased N400 effects.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors pointed out that their results are consistent with both RT literature and N400 literature. However, the increased priming effect in RT is often interpreted as the elderly being more aided by lexical context, while the decrease in N400 effects is taken to reflect less access to lexical context in processing, contradictory to the RT interpretation. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In the discussion section, the authors noted that a. The increased priming effect is reflected not in a faster recognition of related words, but in a slower recognition of unrelated words; b. The N400 is not only subject to semantic relatedness, since phonetic neighborhood etc can also show the n400 effect. Based on these they established an explanation for their results: that the RT results reflect a greater need of context in the elderly in lexical processing, and the diminished N400 effect doesn’t necessarily indicate impaired access to context, but could reflect age-related changes in resource allocation (as shown in imaging studies that the elderly have more interhemispheric activations). They concluded their results to show preserved context sensibility but higher lexical processing cost.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Reference </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Tiedt, H. O., Ehlen, F., &amp; Klostermann, F. (2020). Age-related dissociation of N400 effect and lexical priming. <em>Scientific Reports</em>, <em>10</em>(1), 1-10.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
