---
layout: post
title: 2 Jan 2021, Sun et al. (2020) & Saito et al. (2020)
date: 2021-01-02 13:20
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The two studies in which I was participant from last year? two years ago? Yesterday the experimenter notified us about them. The studies are about explicit &amp; implicit auditory processing in relation to adult L2 speech acquisition. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The first study used the frequency following response (FFR), an EEG response coming from subcortical areas that mirrors the frequency of auditory stimuli (and so differences of the FFR can be seen with different vowels). The FFR has consistant individual differences, and is being used to evaluate variability in implicit auditory processing abilities. The studies tested participant's sound discrimination threshold (explicit auditory processing) using a 3-tone dicision task. Thresholds of pitch, formant, duration, and amplitude were tested. Music memory (melody &amp; rythm) was tested using a repitition task with button presses. EEG responses was recorded as participants listened to a 170ms repitative syllable /da/ for 20 minutes. (I remembet the process was pure torture). From 5ms to 50ms F1, F2, F3 raised (transition from consonant to vowel?). Data of L2 experience (hours of usage) and musical experience (yes or no), as well as L2 speech perception proficiency (minimal consonant and stress distcrimination) were also collected. Being a longitudinal study, the same procedure was used at T1 (less than 5 months immersion) and T2 (T1+5 months).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors reported that implicit auditory processing is not correlated with explicit sound discrimination abilities or music memory. L2 prosody perception gain (they only included prosody perception because other task responses showed high ceiling effects (consonant) or didn't show significant gain (vowels)) correlated with music memory but not with implicit or explicit auditory processing. Multiple regressions showed similar effects, with music memory being the only significant predictor of L2 prosody perception gain. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors attributed the null findings partly to the experiencedness of the participant (immense English formal traning before coming to UK) and partly to the short time of the study (5 months only).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The second study used similar design, but used different participants (who, at T1, had only come to UK for less than a month) and compared explicit processing with L2 pronunciation accuracy in spontanious speech. The results showed a main effect of time, and an interaction of time and explicit auditory processing with people that were more sensitive to formant became more accurate through time on segmentals, word stress, and also spoke faster with less pauses.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Overall I feel like the two studies didn't reach their hypothesis for they didn't have ideal participants. Ideally they should test people with less experience of the L2 so there will be more growth in their participants' L2 skills, but unfortunately they were only able to recruit students coming to the UK with extensive English training (ready to start their postgrad study, afterall). I also find it a little bit odd that by 'explicit auditory processing' and ‘domain general processing’ they meant sound discrimination thresholds (domain general?).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Saito, K., Sun, H., &amp; Tierney, A. (2020). Domain-general auditory processing determines success in second language pronunciation learning in adulthood: A longitudinal study.&nbsp;<em>Applied Psycholinguistics</em>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Sun, H., Saito, K., &amp; Tierney, A. (2020). A longitudinal investigation of explicit and implicit auditory processing in L2 segmental and suprasegmental acquisition.&nbsp;<em>Studies in Second Language Acquisition</em>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
