---
layout: post
title: 17 March 2021, Lau et al. (2013)
date: 2021-03-17 13:56
author: balalahelo
comments: true
categories: [ERP, N400, 未分类]
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>An N400 study comparing strong predictive priming and low predictive priming (single word).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Stimuli were prime-target word pairs that are either semantically related or unrelated. High vs. low predictive context were realised by manipulating the proposion of related pairs in the experimental block. The high predictive block contained 40 related target, 40 unrelated target, 120 unrelated filler, and 160 related filler; the low predictive block contained the same amont of exp stimuli, and 280 unrelated filler. Task was to press a botton when identified an animal word, 40 animal word pairs (not included in exp items) were in each block. The low predictive block was always presented first. SOA was 600 ms.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>ERP results showed an effect of "predictability" on N400 amplitude, such that N400 effect was larger in the high predictable block (unrelated, low - related, low &lt; unrelated, high - related, high; and unrelated, low = unrelated, high; related, low &gt;&gt; related, high). Analyses also showed effect of prediction on N400 distribution, such that where was an interaction between hamisphere and anteriority (N400 effect largest across right posterior electrodes) only in high predictive blocks. They also found effects of prediction on N400 onset latency, such that high predictive block had an earlier-beginning N400 effect. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Personally, I think the results of this study are valid, but I'm not sure whether their design is representing and only representing "predictability", because I haven't seen any other studies  manipulating the proportion of related items as manipulating prediction.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Reference</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Lau, E. F., Holcomb, P. J., &amp; Kuperberg, G. R. (2013). Dissociating N400 effects of prediction from association in single-word contexts. <em>Journal of cognitive neuroscience</em>, <em>25</em>(3), 484-502.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
