---
layout: post
title: 14 Jan 2021, Delogu et al. (2019)
date: 2021-01-14 12:27
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A ERP study aiming at providing evidence for the Retrieval-Integration account of the N400 and the P600's functional role (Brouwer et al. 2017).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The study used two-sentence pairs as stimuli. The first sentence providing context, while the second sentence is grammatically unambiguous with a target word that either is consistant/inconsistant/irrelevant with the context. All manipulations were made in the context sentence.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>consistant (baseline): John <strong>entered</strong> the restaurant. Before long, he opened the <span style="text-decoration:underline;">menu</span>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>inconsistant (event related violation): John **left** the restarurant. Before long, he opened the <span style="text-decoration:underline;">menu</span>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>irrelevant (event unrelated violation): John entered the <strong>apartment</strong>. Before long, he opened the <span style="text-decoration:underline;">menu</span>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors predicted that, with the retrieval-integration view, they should see N400 effect in the irrelevant condition but not in the inconsistant condition, (because 'restaurant' would preactivate 'menu' regardless of leaving or entering), and see P600 effects in the last two conditions. (The traditional semantic integration - syntactic reanalysis view would predict N400 in last two conditions and no P600 effects).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>As a result, N400 effects were only shown in the irrelevant condition, supporting the predictions. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>However, the study reported P600 effects only in the inconsistant condition but not the irrelevant condition. This seems to contradict both the integration view and the syntactic reanalysis view of the P600. The author tried to explain this pattern with task dependency, individual difference, but in the end settled with a component overlap explanation, as they argued a larger N400 effect in the irrelevent condition that could mask the successive P600 amplitude.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Delogu, F., Brouwer, H., &amp; Crocker, M. W. (2019). Event-related potentials index lexical retrieval (N400) and integration (P600) during language comprehension. <em>Brain and cognition</em>, <em>135</em>, 103569.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
