---
layout: post-narrow
title: 6 Jan 2021, Friederici (2011)
date: 2021-01-06 16:41
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This is what I feel like the ultimate review of neural basis of language processing. I can’t believe this is published on a journal and not as a chapter of a book. The review is 30+ pages long and describes the language network, the processing (comprehension) network in particular, time course of auditory comprehension (from ERPs) and finally made an effort to combine the time evidence and space evidence in one model. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I feel like this is an article that’s very hard to write notes on, because the article itself is already written in a very clear and concise style, I feel that any attempts to write its summary or notes would be no more than paraphrasing. So I’ll just make a list of what this article covered, and the future me can go back to the original article for details.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The author first described the language network, involving the IFG (BA44, 45, 47) and the STG (I noticed that the temporoparietal portion of language network in this one is slightly different from other reviews, maybe because of the time of the review), as well as the two parallel dorsal pathways and two ventral pathways, arcuate fascicle from pSTG to premotor, superior longitudinal fascicle from pSTG to BA44, the extreme fiber capsule system EFCS from STG to BA45, the uncinate fascicle from STG to FOP. In this section the author also briefly reviewed functions of each area. This section also covered the default language network located in the perisylvian cortex, and stressed that experimental studies only represent a modulation of this default network.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The author then covered evidence of neural basis of each of the language processing steps. Starting from acoustic-phonological analysis which involves the PAC, planum temporale, planum polare, and STG; to initial syntax processing involving the FOP and the aSTG; computation of semantic and syntactic relations, where the author did some meta analytical work, and discussed in much detail the role of STG and IFG in this process. ←<strong> Note to self </strong>this is the core of the study and should read again when necessary. Finally, the author covered prosodic processing and stressed the right lateralization of intonation (supralingustic) processing.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In the next section, the author reviewed a bunch of ERP studies and established a language comprehension network, going through the N100, ELAN, LAN, N400, P600, the closure positive shift (CPS) in prosodic processes.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The final section includes a modeling of language processing that localized the ERPs in the language network, but also stressed some issues of such model, neuroanatomic variability, cross linguistic variability, and domain specificity. As well as some suggestions for future studies. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In fact, reading this article I was surprised that most information in it was not new to me, which I guess means that I’ve already learned a few things on the topic.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References </strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Friederici, A. D. (2011). The brain basis of language processing: from structure to function. <em>Physiological reviews</em>, <em>91</em>(4), 1357-1392.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
