---
layout: post
title: 21 Feb 2021, Du et al. (2020)
date: 2021-02-21 12:57
author: balalahelo
comments: true
categories: [EEG, ERP, N400, 未分类]
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>An N400 study on effects of background music on sentence comprehension. The study compared N400 amplitudes elicited by world knowledge inconsistant vs. consistant senteces in background silence vs. high-arousal (fast tempo) music vs. low-arousal (slow-tempo) music. The experimenters also recorded participants' self-reported arousal level during the experiment. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Both high- and low-arousal music pieces are selected from major mode orchestral music without lyrics. The self-reported arousal level did not differ with music type.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The major discovery of this study is that N400 amplitude is higher when background music is present than in silence. However, N400 amplitude did not differ with music type in this study. Since the self-reported arousal level also did not differ with music type, the effect of music type on N400 amplitude may need further study. The N400 differece between silence and bgm was associated with sentence integration difficulty caused by limited attentive resources when there's bgm to be processed too. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>However I feel that this intepretation is not the typical intepretation of differences in N400 amplitude. It's resonable to intepret N400 amplitude increase by processing difficulty, but attention is not typically associated with N400 amplitude changes (according to Kutas and Federmeier, at least). So I feel that maybe there is some other intepretation for N400 changes saw in this study.  On a second thought, I haven't read many studies that looked at N400 modulation by another factor, if that makes sense. The N400 studies I've read all seem to manipulate the sementic anomaly in some ways, (whether they talk about masking or priming, the manipulation is always supposed to affect semantic processing "directly"), but the presence of bgm probably isn't supposed to affect semantic processing in the same way as prime words. I did find a study that looked at priming effect of music, though, e.g. major mode chore + sad word elicited a (slightly) higher N400 at the word than mojor mode chore + happy word. For now I can't think of other valid intepretations of this study, but I do wonder whether the silence vs. bgm did something to the N400 by themselves. Suppose each stimulus elicits an N400, shouldn't we expect any sound to increase the N400 amplitude than mere silence?</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Reference</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Du, M., Jiang, J., Li, Z., Man, D., &amp; Jiang, C. (2020). The effects of background music on neural responses during reading comprehension. <em>Scientific Reports</em>, <em>10</em>(1), 1-10.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Steinbeis, N., &amp; Koelsch, S. (2011). Affective priming effects of musical sounds on the processing of word meaning. <em>Journal of cognitive neuroscience</em>, <em>23</em>(3), 604-621.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
