---
layout: post
title: 13 Jan 2021, Kutas & Federmeier (2011)
date: 2021-01-13 14:04
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A review of the N400. Detailedly summarizes its discovery, characterization, and use. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Discovery</strong>. ERPs were discovered in the 1950s. In 1980, Kutas &amp; Hillyard adapted the oddball paradigm in trying to elicit a language P3b, but found the N400 instead. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Characteristics</strong>. The N400's latency is rarely affected by any factors, while it's <strong>amplitude</strong> is most susceptible to manipulation. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Use.</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Early</strong>. Studies successively found that the N400 is <strong><em>insensitive</em></strong> to <strong>unexpected stress/intonation</strong>, or <strong>simple grammatical violation</strong>. It's found that all words elicit an N400, whose amplitude correlates with <strong>cloze probablility</strong>, regardless of context constraint. Semantic anomalies was neither necessary nor sufficient for the N400. The N400 is also found to be <strong><em>insensitive</em></strong> to <strong>affirmation/negation</strong> sentences' meaning or truth value, only sensitive to the semantic relationship between the words (N400 in 'A bird is not a vehicle'.) Later, non-sentence <strong>word lists</strong> are also found to elicit the N400. N400 is also found to be cross-modal, with <strong>spoken, written words, sign languages, images, and faces</strong> when primed (in this paper the authors denied music N400s, but from what I read earlier (Calma-Roddin Drury 2020) there is a N400-like effect with music).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The N400 made some major contributions to psycholinguistics, providing evidence that language comprehension/processing has immediacy and incrementality. Every word in the sentence elicits an N400. Many debates took place concerning on which level of processing the N400 is. Apparently, there were pre-lexical and post-lexical theories, but both couldn't explain some features of the N400, with lexical relevence and context eliciting similar N400 effect, but higher-level context overshadowing lexical relevence when both present. The paper settled down on a lexical theory, that the N400 reflect processing on the lexical assess level. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Supralinguistic</strong>. The N400 is found with <strong>discourse</strong> (contexts more than one sentence), <strong>world knowledge</strong> violations, and <strong>figurative language</strong> (jokes and metaphors). N400 studies on metaphors suggest metaphor is processed quantitatively rather than qualitaticely, with largest N400 for metaphor ('power is an intoxicant') and medium N400 for words requiring explicit mapping ('cough syrup is an intoxicant'). Gestures, although the authors caracterized as non-linguistic, also modulates the semantic N400 when seen together with sentences.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Non-linguistic</strong>. The N400 is found with <strong>picture</strong> sequences, familiar <strong>scenes</strong>, videos of <strong>everyday events</strong>, as well as with <strong>math</strong>. The N400 also helped in dessociation of recollection effect and familiarity effect in <strong>memory</strong> (though called the frontal N400, some say they are the same). The morphology , timing, and topography of these N400s didn't differ with language N400s, suggesting a view that the N400 reflects meaning access in a broader sense.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>The P600</strong>. Studies have found that many implausible language ('For breakfast the eggs would only eat...') doesn't elicit the N400, but elicit the P600 instead.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Prediction</strong>. Apart from the classical prediction N400 studies, the paper also stressed that predictable vs. unpredictable words diverges prior to a word's recognition point and occurs as soon as 'something felt wrong'. Studies in aging suggests that prediction shifts toward more passive, bottom-up strategies in many aging cases. As for brain source of prediction, the paper stressed a left lateralization with some level of involvement of the RH.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Word recognition</strong>. The N400 helped establish a interactive view of word recognitijon, suggesting that lexical categorizing and orthographic processing happens in parallel with attempts at meaning access. However the authors pointed out that this seems to contradicting some eye-moving theories with fixation and saccade planning driven by word recognition (←but is this still the newest theory???)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Acquisition and bilingualism</strong>. In children, the N400 is detectable at 9 months with action sequences, 12 months with picture/word congruency, 19 months with semantic congruency, and 30 months with prediction. In adults, the N400 amplitude reductions is found to be detective only after tens of hours of new language training. In SLA, the N400 is found to correlate with proficiency and AOA.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Localization</strong>. With help form intracranial recording and MEG, the N400 is shown to be a wave of activity, starting 250ms in left pSTG, spreading forwangd and ventrally to left temporal lobe 350ms, then to right ATL and bilateral frontal up to 500ms.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Task</strong>. The N400 can be modulated by task demands, attention, and masking, with more attention to stimuli eliciting more N400 amplitude. However, the N400 doesn't dissapear without attention, suggesting a level of automatic semantic processing. The N400 is also detectable in sleep and amnesia. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Special population</strong>. The N400 is used to measure lexical abilities in certain populations with Alzheimer's, aphasia, autism, etc. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Overall I think this is a very detailed review providing a whole picture of the N400 upto 2011. I certainly need to come back to its very rich references if I'm to do anything with the N400.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Kutas, M., &amp; Federmeier, K. D. (2011). Thirty years and counting: finding meaning in the N400 component of the event-related brain potential (ERP).&nbsp;<em>Annual review of psychology</em>,&nbsp;<em>62</em>, 621-647.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
