---
layout: post
title: 10 Jan 2021, Grisoni et al. (2020)
date: 2021-01-11 22:22
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A ERP study that directly correlated the recently found semantic prediction potential (SPP) with the N400. For stimuli the study used high constraint vs. low constraint spoken sentences with a animal vs. tool target word. They expected to see inverse correlated amplitudes of the SPP and N400.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The SPP, as they described, is a negative going component starting from -150ms from target onset (?). In this study, they had a 1100ms silent period between the previous word and the target word, so I suppose that also translates to about 1000ms from previous word onset? I wonder why they chose to describe the component relative to the target word rather than the previous word, it seems to me that the previous word is maybe a better reference point, since at the appearing of the SPP the target word didn't exist yet, after all. But this is a very minor question. The SPP, according to the authors, reflects predictive effort, since more constraining context (meaning more predictive target word) elicits a larger SPP vs. neutral context ('The German postoffice's logo is...a horn. vs. The company's logo is...a horn.), while the N400, according to the authors, should reflect error resolution.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Their results showed both the SPP and the N400 in all of the constraint conditions that correlate with cloze probability as well as corpus coocurrence frequency, and they did find a negative correlation between the two ERPs. In order to rule out the possibility that the correlation is only there because both are modulated by some other component, they also correlated amplitudes of the SPP to the N100, and found no significance. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>They also did localization analysis with the two ERPs, and found, form whole brain 0.005 uncorrected and ROI 0.05 corrected, that the ERPs has (additional?) activation in the frontal-central acivation for animal targets, and parietal-temporo-occipital activation for tool targets (the SPP activationg more parietal and the N400 activationg ventral occipital). They interpreted this finding as reflecting semantic category selectivity of said regions. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This paper is the first paper I read about the semantic prediction potential SPP, which, is only first reported by the same first author in 2016. Although I feel that it's still too new to be said robust, it does feel natural that previous studies didn't capture this component, since the 1000ms+ interval is quite long and the SPP only showing up at the very end of it. I don't recall reading any other paper taht has the same interval. I hope future studies can look more into this. I'm curious of the author's interpretation of the N400, though. They said that if the SPP is reflecting prediction itself, then the N400 can only reflect error resolution. This seems a little odd to me (just a little). It feels that 'the N400 doesn't reflect predicdtion itself' cannot entail that 'it reflects error resolution'. In the paper I read yesterday (Brouwer 2017), the N400 is described as reflecting meaning retrieval, and I think the retrieval interpretation goes well to with the SPP. Though, again, I don't feel that the two interpretation of the N400 are that conflicting, because I feel that, the error resolution processing in these situations may largely overlap with sementic retrieval (find out prediction is wrong - heard the new word - deal with/retrieve the new word).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Grisoni, L., Miller, T. M., &amp; Pulvermüller, F. (2017). Neural correlates of semantic prediction and resolution in sentence processing.&nbsp;<em>Journal of Neuroscience</em>,&nbsp;<em>37</em>(18), 4848-4858.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Grisoni, L., Tomasello, R., &amp; Pulvermüller, F. (2020). Correlated Brain Indexes of Semantic Prediction and Prediction Error: Brain Localization and Category Specificity.&nbsp;<em>Cerebral Cortex</em>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Luigi Grisoni, Felix R. Dreyer, Friedemann Pulvermüller, Somatotopic Semantic Priming and Prediction in the Motor System,&nbsp;<em>Cerebral Cortex</em>, Volume 26, Issue 5, May 2016, Pages 2353–2366,&nbsp;<a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhw026">https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhw026</a></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
