---
layout: post-narrow
title: 10 Dec 2020
date: 2020-12-10 17:16
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph {"dropCap":true} -->
<p class="has-drop-cap">Today is the third week after I finished treatment. The PICC is still in my arm, so I still need to go to the hospital weekly to do its maintenance. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Many, many things have changed this year. I'm no longer the young, dreaming spirit. After my disease, moving back home, and the pandamic, now I'm just a young, dreaming spirit that have to care about realistic problems. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>My families have been so supportive. Sometimes, I get anxious of how supportive they are, knowing that there's nothing I can do to pay them back enough. But I guess I shouldn't let off these feelings on the people who care about me. I still need to really work on studentship applications, though, so that those feelings have a chance to go away forever. It seems that I've missed one of the studentships while in treatment, but according to my supervisor, my chances are slim, anyway. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>At the end of treatment I've made myself a goal of reading one paper a day, by today I've read about 20. Seems to me a good idea to write down some notes of them, so that they don't dissapear from my memory that easily. I wanted to have a wider knowledge of things that can help me in the future, so there was no limit in the subjects I'm reading.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The last two days I read Cogan et al. (2014) and Bouchard et al. (2013). It was the first time I've read electrocorticography (ECoG) studies. Although I knew about directly recording neural activity from the cortex, it was only when I read the article that I realised the direct recording electrodes aren't just put there during surgery, but they can stay on the cortex for quite a long time outside surgery too. This startled me a little bit, but then I thought of the tube that's in my own veins for half a year now, maybe it's not that surprising after all. It also surprised me a little how clean and clear ECoG data can be. My own thoughts aside, Cogan et al. (2014) sutdied sensory-motor transformations of speech, mainly using an overt word repetition task. They had 16 subjects having subdural electrodes on left, right, or both hamispheres. Apart from areas responding to auditory stimuli and areas responding to subject's speech, they identified sensory-motor responses bilaterally in the supramarginal gyrus, MTG, STG, somatosensory cortex, motor and premotor cortex, and IFG. They then used various methods to argue that the responses they found truly reflect sensory-motor transformation, and is specific to speech. At the end they argued that only the higher level processing of language is lateralized, while sensory-motor transformations are balancedly bilateral. Bouchard et al. (2016) used 3 subjects that have high-density multi-electrode arrays implated to study speech articulation. Recording neural activities during articulations of consonant-vowel syllables, they found spatially arranged representations of articulators (larynx, lips, jaw, tongue, then larynx again) on the vSMC. They argued that the second representation of larynx is specific to humans. They also found some temporal specificity for the vowels and consonants, as well as a hierarchical organization of phoneme representations that is arranged around usage of articulators. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Speaking of bilaterality, a few days ago I read Huth et al. (2016), an fMRI decoding/mapping study about sementic representations using voxel-wise analyses. Using data driven methods they identified 12 categories of words that are reprensented more or less separately in four data-driven dimensions. The 12 categories included tactile ('fingers'), visual ('yellow'), numeric ('four'), etc. They found that these patterns to be consistant across individuals (at least individuals from the same cultural backgroud) and occur highly bilateraly, relatively symmatrical, contradicting beliefs of left lateralized semantic representations, established from lesion studies. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>There are many other articles I want to put down, but I'll stop here today.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Bouchard, K. E., Mesgarani, N., Johnson, K., &amp; Chang, E. F. (2013). Functional organization of human sensorimotor cortex for speech articulation.&nbsp;<em>Nature</em>,&nbsp;<em>495</em>(7441), 327-332.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Cogan, G. B., Thesen, T., Carlson, C., Doyle, W., Devinsky, O., &amp; Pesaran, B. (2014). Sensory–motor transformations for speech occur bilaterally.&nbsp;<em>Nature</em>,&nbsp;<em>507</em>(7490), 94-98.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Huth, A. G., De Heer, W. A., Griffiths, T. L., Theunissen, F. E., &amp; Gallant, J. L. (2016). Natural speech reveals the semantic maps that tile human cerebral cortex.&nbsp;<em>Nature</em>,&nbsp;<em>532</em>(7600), 453-458.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
