---
layout: post-narrow
title: 31 Dec 2020, Dehaene et al. (2015)
date: 2020-12-31 20:02
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A review on the effect of literacy on functions of brain systems. In this paper, the authors mainly included fMRI and ERP studies comparing literate, ex-illiterate (people who acquired reading as adults), and illiterate populations. (I must say that when reading this I've mistaken the words "literate" and "illiterate" too many times, the little i is easy to miss). (I'm omitting many references of empirical studies in the below notes, but future me can refer to the original paper for them since the paper is nicely organized it should be easy.)</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>At the beginning and also at the end, the authors stressed that current methods are hard to dissociate literacy from schooling and socio-economic factors. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The review first looked at literacy's effect on early visual processing, starting from that literacy generally enhances responses of early visual cortices to various stimuli, as well as enhances a 140-180ms occipital ERP. In alphabetic readers, literacy enhances responses of V1 to horizontal checker-boards (In Chinese readers the same effects are seen in V3 and V4). These enhancements are explained by perceptual learning, target- and location-specific improvement in the identification of well-learnt stimuli. As a result, literate people may have better image analysis strategies.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The ventral visual pathway, especially the visual word form area VWFA, is shaped by literacy. Besides the well-known activation vs. no activation from scripts at the VWFA in literate vs. illiterate populations, the authors extended to a detailed description of the relations between VWFA's function and literacy. Reading speed is apparently related to VWFA activation. ERP also shows that the N170 (coming from the left ventral occipitotemporal cortex) is enhanced in literate people. Development of these effects takes place early and quickly, in 6-year-olds for a few weeks of training. In 9-year-olds the VWFA already shows strong selectivity of letters. In adults, a few days of training in a novel script also increase activation in the VWFA, though plasticity in adults may be weaker (activation of VWFA from face recognition doesn't seem to weaken in adults).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>"The VWFA is generally agreed to intervene in the efficient identification of orthographic stimuli and to enable quick association of such stimuli with phonological and lexical information." But the authors expressed that there's debate on how specialized the VWFA is for reading. One view is that the VWFA specializes in orthographic coding, the other view is that the VWFA has an abstract, non-orthographic code that also works for pictures. The authors identified the main issue here is not whether the VWFA has top-down influences (yes), but rather whether such top-down inputs are orthography specific. The authors favor the first view, citing a study that recorded ECoG signals while learning a new script, which found top-down effects at the VWFA site occur early with a few days of training, whereas bottom-up tuning occurs days later. The authors also noted that in congenitally blind populations, the VWFA also emerges when learning to read in Braille, suggesting the area to be meta-modal. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The emergence fo the VWFA affects face reccognition. the fusiform face area FFA becomes more right-lateralized as literacy increases, as early as the age of four. In adults, the sizes of responses to written words and facdes are inversely correlated. Anatomically, "a recently identifies cytoarchitectonic area, the human fusiform gyrus region known as 'FG2', seems to afford fMRI responses both to words and to faces and therefore may be the shared neuroanatomical resource for which both categories of stimuli compete". </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Literacy also affects mirror invariance, the ability to recognize a visual image as identical after left-right inversions. Mirror invariance, whose brain area overlaps with the VWFA, is stronger in illiterate people than literate, supported by both fMRI and EEG, though the authors suspected the effect may only present in people learning scripts that contain mirrored pairs (d-b, p-q). On the other hand, literate people are better at discriminate mirror pictures and symbols.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Literacy largely interacts with speech-processing. Generally, literacy increases activation by speech. Specifically, two regions, the planum temporale PT and the VWFA are most affected. The PT has representations of consonants and vowels of spoken language, attuned to the native language. Amplitude of PT activation is incresed with literacy (approximately two-folds). "The literacy-associated increase in PT activation may indicate a refinement of one or more types of phonological representation". Behaviorally, literacy increases explicit phonological knowledge, allowing literal people to perform better in tasks involving phoneme discrimination. The VWFA, in literates more than illiterates, also has top-down activation in listening tasks that require conversion from phonology to orthography. ERP suggects this effect occurs early, and could modulate core processes of lexical access. Literacy may also help develop verbal memory for spoken materials. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Anatomically, literacy modifies the posterior temporoparietal protion of the left arcuate fasciculus, which may participate in the development of the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion route; and thickens the splenium and/or the isthmus of the corpus callosum, which reflects enhanced interhemispheric tranfer of phonological and visual information. Literacy is also reported to increase grey matter density in several regions of the angular, supramarginal and temporal gyri, the bilateral dorsal occipitao-parietal region, bilateral middle temporal gyri, and superior temporal gyri. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>At the end, the authors expressed that studies can look at the effects of literacy on more general cognitive abilities. Literacy seems to have an impact on some complex working-memory tasks such as listening span, but so far, as the authors noted, the few studies on this topic haven't had good dissociation between literacy and schooling. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Dehaene, S., Cohen, L., Morais, J.&nbsp;<em>et al.</em>&nbsp;Illiterate to literate: behavioural and cerebral changes induced by reading acquisition.&nbsp;<em>Nat Rev Neurosci</em>&nbsp;<strong>16,&nbsp;</strong>234–244 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn3924</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
