---
layout: post-narrow
title: 11 Dec 2020, Emmendorfer et al. (2020)
date: 2020-12-11 16:03
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This is passive EEG oddball study investigating modulations of the MMN by phonotactic probability and stress. Language used was Dutch.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph {"align":"left"} -->
<p class="has-text-align-left">From introduction I learned several things about predictions in speech. The authors used a distinction of formal and temporal predictions, and further described phonotactic mismatch as formal and stress as temporal. The authors explained that stress mismatch is similar to interrupting the meter of a beat, and therefore temporal.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Concerning predictions by phonotactic probability, I learned that while processing speed and accuracy are increased by higher probability, word learning is actually slowed by high phonotactic probabilities. This is explained by the hypothesis that low probability words are more easily identified as an object to learn. (References given: Strokel, 2009, Strokel &amp; Lee, 2011; Strokel et al. 2006). </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In addition, higher phonotactic probability is associated with higher amplitude of the MMN, supposedly representing facilitated processes.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>In languages with fixed stress patterns (Hungarian, Finnish, where stress is always on the first syllable in bisyllabic words), deviant stress patterns elicit two consecutive MMNs, hypothesized to represent first the missing stress on the first syllable, then the added stress on the second syllable. (References: Honbolygó et al., 2004; Honbolygó &amp; Csépe, 2013; Ylinen et al., 2009).</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This study manipulated phonotactic mismatch and stress mismatch at the same time. Participants listened to continuous repetitions of a Dutch pseudoword, with either formal oddballs or temporal oddballs. The authors found that oddballs of higher phonotactic probability gave an earlier latency of the MMN (note that they found differences in latency rather than amplitude), and stress did not appear to have impact on the MMN, amplitude or latency.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The authors explained the latency vs. amplitude issue saying that both higher amplitude and earlier latency reflect facilitated process, so their results are consistent with previous studies.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Emmendorfer, A. K., Correia, J. M., Jansma, B. M., Kotz, S. A., &amp; Bonte, M. (2020). ERP mismatch response to phonological and temporal regularities in speech. <em>Scientific reports</em>, <em>10</em>(1), 1-12.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Honbolygó, F., Csépe, V., &amp; Ragó, A. (2004). Suprasegmental speech cues are automatically processed by the human brain: a mismatch negativity study. <em>Neuroscience Letters</em>, <em>363</em>(1), 84-88.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Honbolygó, F., &amp; Csépe, V. (2013). Saliency or template? ERP evidence for long-term representation of word stress. <em>International journal of psychophysiology</em>, <em>87</em>(2), 165-172.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Storkel, H. L. (2009). Developmental differences in the effects of phonological, lexical, and semantic variables on word learning by infants. <em>Journal of child language</em>, <em>36</em>(2), 291.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Storkel, H. L., &amp; Lee, S. Y. (2011). The independent effects of phonotactic probability and neighbourhood density on lexical acquisition by preschool children. <em>Language and Cognitive Processes</em>, <em>26</em>(2), 191-211.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Storkel, H. L., Armbrüster, J., &amp; Hogan, T. P. (2006). Differentiating phonotactic probability and neighborhood density in adult word learning. <em>Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research</em>.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Ylinen, S., Strelnikov, K., Huotilainen, M., &amp; Näätänen, R. (2009). Effects of prosodic familiarity on the automatic processing of words in the human brain. <em>International Journal of Psychophysiology</em>, <em>73</em>(3), 362-368.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
