---
layout: post-narrow
title: 25 Feb 2021, Chen et al. (2019)
date: 2021-02-25 12:48
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A study using data from the Human Connetome Project (n=313) to investigate fonctional &amp; structural connectivities of the VWFA in the whole brain context.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>The study mainly demostrated that the VWFA has strong connectivity with the frontal-parietal attention network, including the intraparietal sulcus IPS, V5/middle temporal visual area MT+ fromtal eye fields FEF.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Whole brain structural connectivity was analysed using probabilistic tractography, and indentified the inferior longitudinal fasciculus ILF, superior longitudinal fasciculus SLF, and the ventral occipital fasciculus/temporal-parietal-superior parietal lobule vOF/TP-SPL as main white-matter tracts associated with the VWFA. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>ROI structural connectivity analysis revealed connectivity between VWFA and the ITG, mSTS, and ATL as the language network; as well as with FEF, MT+, aIPS, and pIPS as the attention network. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Functional connectivity analysis showed moderate connectivity of VWFA with nodes of the language network, but revealed a striking pattern of connectivity between VWFA snd attention network nodes, especially with MT+ and IPS. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>This study also did multiple regressions to study whether VWFA connectivity to language or attention predict standard scores of language or visual attention abilities (word reading and picture vocabulary, Flanker's test). They found a double dissociation in which cocnnectivity between VWFA and language network predicted language performance uniquely, and VWFA with attention network predicted visuo-spatial attention uniquely. They also found that both structual + functional connectivity measures better predicted both behavioral measures than just structural or just functional connectivity. </p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Overall, this study critisized previous studies of the VWFA of using small sample size, and doing a priori tests and analysis associating the VWFA and language networks. The authors did not deny the involvement of VWFA in language, but emphasized the function of VWFA in visual attention.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>Reference</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Chen, L., Wassermann, D., Abrams, D. A., Kochalka, J., Gallardo-Diez, G., &amp; Menon, V. (2019). The visual word form area (VWFA) is part of both language and attention circuitry. <em>Nature communications</em>, <em>10</em>(1), 1-12.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
