---
layout: post-narrow
title: 8 Jan 2021, He et al. (2020)
date: 2021-01-08 16:36
author: Yiling Huo
categories: Reading_notes
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>A ERP study on cross modal priming effects on the N400. The study compared hand gestures seen from the front vs. the side and their effects on the N400.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Participants saw a priming video showing the communicative hand gestures (eg indicating a large object with hands opening up), before seeing visually presented sentences either congruent with the gesture or incongruent. The authors collected both EEG signals during gesture viewing and sentence viewing.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>From gesture viewing, they found that gestures seen from both the front and the side reduced alpha band (8-12hz) and beta band (16-24hz) oscillation power, but only the beta band showed more decrease with frontal viewed gesture vs. lateral viewed gesture with a right middle frontal localization. The alpha band decrease is previously associated with general sensory/motor perception, while the beta band decrease associated with fine-grained motor-related features. As for the N400, only frontal viewed gestures elicited significant N400 effect on the incongruent target word, while there were no significant N400 effect for the lateral viewed gestures. Amplitude differences also revealed a significant cluster where congruency effects and gesture position interacted, the cluster having a central-parietal distribution.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Overall, this study showed that cross-modal priming (gestures) can modulate the N400, moreover, view point of the gesture can play a role in the modulating effect.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><strong>References</strong></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>He, Y., Luell, S., Muralikrishnan, R., Straube, B., &amp; Nagels, A. (2020). Gesture's body orientation modulates the N400 for visual sentences primed by gestures. <em>Human brain mapping</em>, <em>41</em>(17), 4901-4911.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
